TECHNICAL MANAGER'S GUIDE

1. All of your activities should be subordinated to one goal: the result.
And the technical aspect is subordinated to the aspect of life - how much will the goal of the business be achieved?
For the sake of it you can overstep _any_ rules.
So any question or activity should be viewed from the angle of "why do we need it? what benefits will it bring?"

2. on this basis, the assessment of your activity is implementation.
In WWII, they gave the Stalin Prize not for the drawings of a new tank or airplane, but for a working assembly line for its production,
trained craftsmen and workers and an established supply chain, i.e. a factory with a stable production.
So the moment you hand over the project to the customer, everything is just beginning.

3. Your activity is more than just setting and controlling tasks.
You need to solve a lot of issues - people training, requests for resources (servers, services), work automation, coordination, various contingencies.

4. Try to act with a kind word.
All people have their own M.O. and style of work, all people are different.
So when you encounter stubbornness and misunderstanding, you will need great patience.

You have the right to fire and hire, to punish and reward (mostly with money).
But by firing or punishing for little things, you create resentment.

By breaking a person's style simply because they don't conform to mythical "best practices," you gain nothing, but you lose time.

A good specialist is hard to find and easy to lose, so look for common ground, do not focus on the unimportant.
Get over personal dissatisfaction and resentment.
If you fired a person for what you think he can not do - this is probably a minus to you.
If you've tamed him and learned to work together - that's a plus for you.

Reveal the qualities of the person, notice what he is strong (you can just ask).

5. A good word comes with a gun.
Be firm when you need to be.
Personal handwriting is easy to distinguish from pampering and incompetence.

6. Another thing about a kind word.
A simple human "thank you for a job well done" lifts spirits and self-esteem.

Always be polite, even in difficult situations.
The captains and quartermasters of pirate crews did not address the common sailors with the title "you" and the title "mister" for nothing.

7. Your responsibilities are more formal:
Estimating task deadlines
Setting tasks for subordinates
Supervising the completion of tasks by subordinates (acceptance of work)
Communicating with customers, surveys, translation from conversational to technical
Writing and reviewing terms of reference
Hiring interviews
People training, technical and organizational mentoring
Leading development management system activities
Code reviewing
Writing Documentation

TODO
- Compliance of projects with "code and assembly design"
- customer reporting
- Accustoming coders to reporting
- safety technology
