CRYPTOPANEL
OPERATOR'S MANUAL

REVIEW

Cryptopanel is a service for autotesting load, both special (modular bot, backdoor) and arbitrary.

The main types of tests:
- static scan on dyncheck.com
- dynamic scan on dyncheck.com
- unit bot autotests
- backdoor autotests
- Autotests on antivirus (AV)

Both a third-party service (dyncheck.com) and our own virtual machine farm are used for the tests.


INTERFACE

The main Scan partition is divided into folders (Uncrypted, EXP, ZSS, etc.).
Each folder is usually handled by a separate user.
Folders Uncrypted and Others are shared.
Uncrypted folder contains uncrypted files, from where they are picked up by cryptors, crypted and the results are placed in their folder.
The Others folder contains arbitrary loads.

When you enter the folder, you can see the files.
For users with appropriate permissions, the area for uploading their files is also available - "Drop your files here or click to upload".

Next fields:
Name - file name
Size - file size
Uploaded - uploaded date.
Priority - priority - the files with the highest priority have the first number in the test queue
Check - tests start:
  Static - static scan on dyncheck.com
  Dynamic - dynamic scanning at dyncheck.com
  VM - running autotest on a virtual machine
Reports - reports
  * Static scanning reports at dyncheck.com
  * dynamic scanning reports at dyncheck.com
  * AutoTest reports on VMs
Actions
  Download - download file
  Delete - delete file

In the autotest window on a VM, we see a list of virtual machines, as well as a Test Type field (at the very bottom).
Test types:
* regular - autotest of module bot
* newbk - autotest of backdoor
* AV only - random load test on AV

Obviously, you have to choose the right type of test for the file being tested.
That is, you must know what you are testing.
If you do not know what you are testing, select the test type AV Only.
The load will be checked statically and dynamically.


AUTOTEST REPORTS

When reading reports from autotests, each line of the report reports the status of a particular scan.
At the beginning of the report the type of antivirus (if there is one on the computer) is usually specified, for example

AV: Bitdefender Total Security

General checks:
- unarchived_static_detect: static check on AB
- proactive_detect: dynamic check on AV
- network_status: check network operability on the test computer

Modular bot:
- client_installed: the bot is installed on the computer and anchored. This is usually followed by a bot ID, like
DESKTOP-4KGAMLP_W10014393.3A98863768251B6D725CF14F86EDE3D5|yas43
- client_knocked: bot knocked into the admin area (shows a knockout line like
YYYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.MSEC 1 3 online

- client_modules_detect: post-check on AV - antivirus did not take the bot down after loading and launching modules

Backdoor:
- For the backdoor, the command execution log on the test computer is shown (for today, the Get_Sysinfo command).
- bk_knocked: backdoor knocked into admin

In this way, you can find out what was happening at each stage of the load and localize the error, if there is one.

The test is considered fully passed if all autotest items are passed.
However, this is not a guarantee that the load is fully functional!
For example, because the number of test environments is limited and all cases cannot be taken into account.
In addition, not all load functions can be tested automatically.


PROBLEMS

Autotests is a complex system, and it sometimes breaks down.
We have tried to do self-diagnostics where we can, but we can't do everything.
In any case, if you see one of these messages:

    Cryptopanel proxy <url> is down, please call system administrator.
    Automatic tests are disabled.

    Regular tests are disabled because Lero proxy <url> is down.
    Please call system administrator.

    New BK tests are disabled because BK proxy <url> is down.
    Please call system administrator.

it means that something is not working and the cavalry must be called.

Sometimes errors can be seen in the reports:

* VM dont'get file in 10 min: VM did not get file in 10 min, test task is canceled.
This happens when:
- VM is slow
- network crash (no connectivity)
- Software failure of autotest scripts
